README.md, before:

# ReChess 1.0

## What's this?

This is ReChess, an app for playing chess against an engine.

## How can I get started quickly?

Here's what you need to do:

1. Make sure you have Python 3.13 installed. If not, read below:

    - For Windows, :point_right: [click here to download Python 3.13 installer](https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.13.1/python-3.13.1-amd64.exe) :point_left:
    - For Linux, execute `sudo apt-get install python3.13` in the
      terminal or execute a command applicable for the package manager
      of your distro
    - For macOS, :point_right: [click here to download Python 3.13 installer](https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.13.1/python-3.13.1-macos11.pkg) :point_left:

2. Install required packages by executing this command in the terminal
   from within ReChess's top-level directory:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

:point_right: On macOS, the `pip` command is written as `pip3`.

3. Launch ReChess by executing this command in the terminal from within
   ReChess's top-level directory:

```bash
python main.py
```

:point_right: On macOS, the `python` command is written as `python3`.

4. Start playing by doing this:

    - Click a piece to see its legal moves.
    - Click a legal square to make your move.
    - Use the Settings button to customize your experience.

## In what programming language is ReChess written?

That would be **Python**.

### What version of Python are we talking about here?

It would be best if you launch ReChess using Python **3.13**.

### Why 3.13 specifically?

As tested, ReChess works on all major platforms using Python 3.13, so on
Windows, Linux, and macOS.

### What about other Python versions?

ReChess should work using a Python version older than 3.13, but surely
won't work using a 2.x version. If required, modify the source code to
adapt it to your specific Python version.

## Are there any dependencies?

Yes. ReChess depends upon:

- **python-chess**: A library for developing chess apps
- **psutil**: A library for getting operating system metrics
- **PySide6**: A framework for developing cross-platform GUI apps

### Is there any 3rd-party software integrated?

Yes. ReChess integrates **Stockfish**, a powerful engine for playing and
analyzing a game.

## What features does ReChess provide?

You get all the basic building blocks for playing chess:

- board
- clocks
- FEN editor
- table view for showing Standard Algebraic Notation (SAN)

### Is that it?

There are also many features you can use:

- flip the board
- analyze a position
- load an engine of your choice
- force the engine to make a move
- navigate through moves of the game
- select from one of the dark or light styles
- play against the latest version of the Stockfish engine
- paste a FEN from the clipboard by double-clicking the FEN editor

## Which chess variants are supported?

Chess variants are not supported.

## How do I move a piece on the board?

Making a move in ReChess is as simple as a click. Just click a piece and
then click one of its legal squares to make your move.

### How do I know which legal squares are available for a piece?

After you click a piece, all of its legal squares get marked with a dot.
That's how you know.

### Can I drag and drop a piece?

No. Drag-and-drop functionality is not supported, just click-click.

## How does ReChess look?

The following screenshots show how ReChess looks in **Dark mint** style.

![Settings dialog](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/10b397b0-d855-47c7-b148-5a900c4feb29 "Settings dialog")
*Changing the settings.*

![Move history](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3226951e-ce18-4638-9e9d-070833ab8454 "Move history")
*Selecting a move from the table view.*

![Position analysis](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a7d3137a-fe5c-404a-bc3d-f0dbe76259be "Position analysis")
*Analyzing a position with the default Stockfish 17 engine.*

![Pawn promotion](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9c922ee8-2633-49ca-9f04-7ec2c1ebcb14 "Pawn promotion")
*Promoting a white pawn to a queen, a rook, a bishop, or a knight.*

## What's the default engine in ReChess?

The latest version of **Stockfish** is the default engine. It works on
Windows, Linux, and macOS platforms.

### What if I want to play against some other engine?

You can load and then play against or analyze with any engine, but it
has to be a UCI-compliant one.

### Why does it have to be a UCI-compliant engine?

An engine compliant only with Chess Engine Communication Protocol (CECP)
and designed for either the WinBoard GUI (on the Windows platform) or
the XBoard GUI (on a Linux-based platform) can't be loaded in ReChess,
because it doesn't support this type of protocol. If your engine is also
compliant with Universal Chess Interface (UCI), then you're in luck.

### Can I analyze a position?

Yes. You can analyze a position with the default Stockfish engine or a
UCI-compliant engine you load yourself.

## Who should get thanks for ReChess?

1. Thanks to all developers for their dedicated work on the Python
   programming language!

    - [Source](https://github.com/python/cpython)
    - [Downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads)

2. Thanks to developer Giampaolo Rodola for his dedicated work on the
   psutil library!

    - [Source](https://github.com/giampaolo/psutil)
    - [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/psutil)

3. Thanks to all developers for their dedicated work on the PySide6 GUI
   framework!

    - [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/PySide6)

4. Thanks to developer Niklas Fiekas for his dedicated work on the
   python-chess library!

    - [Source](https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess)
    - [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/chess)

5. Last but not least, thanks to all developers for their dedicated work
   on the Stockfish engine!

    - [Source](https://github.com/official-stockfish/Stockfish)
    - [Downloads](https://stockfishchess.org/download)

## What license does ReChess use?

ReChess uses the **MIT License**.

### Where can I see the license?

See the `LICENSE.txt` file in the top-level directory of ReChess about
the permissions, limitations, and conditions of the license.

### Can I develop an app based on ReChess?

Absolutely! For your app, you can use any license, but make sure to
include my copyright notice above yours.

Your copyright notice should look like this:

```
Copyright (C) 2025 Boštjan Mejak
Copyright (C) 2025 John Doe
```

On the second line, provide the year in which you are releasing your app
and provide your legal first and last name.

#### What if I also want to integrate Stockfish?

If you intend to integrate Stockfish in your app:

1. Include Stockfish's copyright notice
2. Include the GPLv3 License to comply with Stockfish's license

See the `THIRD-PARTY-NOTICES.txt` file to understand how to do this.

Commit message:

Fixed README to document drag-and-drop functionality for move making

README.md, after:

# ReChess 1.0

## What's this?

This is ReChess, an app for playing chess against an engine.

## How can I get started quickly?

Here's what you need to do:

1. Make sure you have Python 3.13 installed. If not, read below:

    - For Windows, :point_right: [click here to download Python 3.13 installer](https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.13.1/python-3.13.1-amd64.exe) :point_left:
    - For Linux, execute `sudo apt-get install python3.13` in the
      terminal or execute a command applicable for the package manager
      of your distro
    - For macOS, :point_right: [click here to download Python 3.13 installer](https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.13.1/python-3.13.1-macos11.pkg) :point_left:

2. Install required packages by executing this command in the terminal
   from within ReChess's top-level directory:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

:point_right: On macOS, the `pip` command is written as `pip3`.

3. Launch ReChess by executing this command in the terminal from within
   ReChess's top-level directory:

```bash
python main.py
```

:point_right: On macOS, the `python` command is written as `python3`.

4. Start playing by doing this:

    - Click a piece to see its legal moves.
    - Click a legal square to make your move.
    - Use the Settings button to customize your experience.

## In what programming language is ReChess written?

That would be **Python**.

### What version of Python are we talking about here?

It would be best if you launch ReChess using Python **3.13**.

### Why 3.13 specifically?

As tested, ReChess works on all major platforms using Python 3.13, so on
Windows, Linux, and macOS.

### What about other Python versions?

ReChess should work using a Python version older than 3.13, but surely
won't work using a 2.x version. If required, modify the source code to
adapt it to your specific Python version.

## Are there any dependencies?

Yes. ReChess depends upon:

- **python-chess**: A library for developing chess apps
- **psutil**: A library for getting operating system metrics
- **PySide6**: A framework for developing cross-platform GUI apps

### Is there any 3rd-party software integrated?

Yes. ReChess integrates **Stockfish**, a powerful engine for playing and
analyzing a game.

## What features does ReChess provide?

You get all the basic building blocks for playing chess:

- board
- clocks
- FEN editor
- table view for showing Standard Algebraic Notation (SAN)

### Is that it?

There are also many features you can use:

- flip the board
- analyze a position
- load an engine of your choice
- force the engine to make a move
- navigate through moves of the game
- select from one of the dark or light styles
- play against the latest version of the Stockfish engine
- paste a FEN from the clipboard by double-clicking the FEN editor

## Which chess variants are supported?

Chess variants are not supported.

## How do I move a piece on the board?

Making a move in ReChess is as simple as a drag. Just drag a piece on
one of its legal squares and then drop it there to make your move.

### How do I know which legal squares are available for a piece?

After you start dragging a piece, all of its legal squares get marked
with a dot. That's how you know.

## How does ReChess look?

The following screenshots show how ReChess looks in **Dark mint** style.

![Settings dialog](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/10b397b0-d855-47c7-b148-5a900c4feb29 "Settings dialog")
*Changing the settings.*

![Move history](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3226951e-ce18-4638-9e9d-070833ab8454 "Move history")
*Selecting a move from the table view.*

![Position analysis](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a7d3137a-fe5c-404a-bc3d-f0dbe76259be "Position analysis")
*Analyzing a position with the default Stockfish 17 engine.*

![Pawn promotion](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9c922ee8-2633-49ca-9f04-7ec2c1ebcb14 "Pawn promotion")
*Promoting a white pawn to a queen, a rook, a bishop, or a knight.*

## What's the default engine in ReChess?

The latest version of **Stockfish** is the default engine. It works on
Windows, Linux, and macOS platforms.

### What if I want to play against some other engine?

You can load and then play against or analyze with any engine, but it
has to be a UCI-compliant one.

### Why does it have to be a UCI-compliant engine?

An engine compliant only with Chess Engine Communication Protocol (CECP)
and designed for either the WinBoard GUI (on the Windows platform) or
the XBoard GUI (on a Linux-based platform) can't be loaded in ReChess,
because it doesn't support this type of protocol. If your engine is also
compliant with Universal Chess Interface (UCI), then you're in luck.

### Can I analyze a position?

Yes. You can analyze a position with the default Stockfish engine or a
UCI-compliant engine you load yourself.

## Who should get thanks for ReChess?

1. Thanks to all developers for their dedicated work on the Python
   programming language!

    - [Source](https://github.com/python/cpython)
    - [Downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads)

2. Thanks to developer Giampaolo Rodola for his dedicated work on the
   psutil library!

    - [Source](https://github.com/giampaolo/psutil)
    - [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/psutil)

3. Thanks to all developers for their dedicated work on the PySide6 GUI
   framework!

    - [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/PySide6)

4. Thanks to developer Niklas Fiekas for his dedicated work on the
   python-chess library!

    - [Source](https://github.com/niklasf/python-chess)
    - [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/chess)

5. Last but not least, thanks to all developers for their dedicated work
   on the Stockfish engine!

    - [Source](https://github.com/official-stockfish/Stockfish)
    - [Downloads](https://stockfishchess.org/download)

## What license does ReChess use?

ReChess uses the **MIT License**.

### Where can I see the license?

See the `LICENSE.txt` file in the top-level directory of ReChess about
the permissions, limitations, and conditions of the license.

### Can I develop an app based on ReChess?

Absolutely! For your app, you can use any license, but make sure to
include my copyright notice above yours.

Your copyright notice should look like this:

```
Copyright (C) 2025 Boštjan Mejak
Copyright (C) 2025 John Doe
```

On the second line, provide the year in which you are releasing your app
and provide your legal first and last name.

#### What if I also want to integrate Stockfish?

If you intend to integrate Stockfish in your app:

1. Include Stockfish's copyright notice
2. Include the GPLv3 License to comply with Stockfish's license

See the `THIRD-PARTY-NOTICES.txt` file to understand how to do this.
